DOCS-11300 add topic for upgrading RTF-SMK (#385)
mulesoft/docs-runtime-fabric: modules/ROOT/pages/upgrade-self-managed.adoc

= Upgrade Runtime Fabric for Self-Managed Kubernetes

> To upgrade Anypoint Runtime Fabric for Self-Managed Kubernetes, you need to upgrade Runtime Fabric components and the `rtfctl` command-line utility.

Reviewer: Avoiding the modal verb...:
```suggestion
To upgrade Anypoint Runtime Fabric for Self-Managed Kubernetes, upgrade Runtime Fabric components and the `rtfctl` command-line utility.
```

== About Component Upgrades

> Runtime Fabric component upgrades involve the internal services that run within the appliance used to facilitate communication to the Anypoint control plane, provide load balancing, and log and metrics forwarding.

Reviewer: Is it the appliance or the services that are "used to facilitate..."?

Reviewer: We are not supposed to refer to "Anypoint control plane," per Term List/Prod. Marketing.

Reviewer: Just an alternative:
```suggestion
Upgrading Runtime Fabric components means upgrading appliance-internal services that:
- Facilitate communication to the control plane
- Provide load balancing
- Log and forward metrics
```

> Runtime Fabric component upgrades are applied within Runtime Manager via a button that's visible when an upgrade is made available.

Reviewer: Do we need to describe the button (is it labelled *Upgrade*?) or include a screencap?

Reviewer: Also, passive. But judicious use of passive is OK. Just commenting, because the original topic uses it a bit.

Author: going to fix this passive voice

Runtime Fabric component upgrades do not require adding a node.

> == About `rtfctl` Command-Line Utility Upgrades

Reviewer: We don't use special formats in titles, so...:
```suggestion
== About rtfctl Command-Line Utility Upgrades
```

> The `rtfctl` command-line utility is used to manage Runtime Fabric and perform appliance and node configuration upgrades.

Reviewer: Similarly, passive.

Author: will fix

You upgrade the `rtfctl` utility from the command line.

> It is important to use the most current version of the `rtfctl` command-line utility.

Reviewer: I wonder if we have to say this at all? If so, maybe at the beginning of the topic, adding WHY (for efficiency, interoperability, whatever).

> == Determine the Component Versions You Are Using

Reviewer: I wonder if this should be combined with the info currently in About Component Upgrades?

Author: good idea. I'll move it

> From your local workstation (configured with a kubeconfig file) or a support bastion, run the following command:

Reviewer: Question: in the context of this topic, would the local workstation ever _not_ be configured with a kubeconfig file?
In other words, must we say this at all? It's a little awkward in the sentence.

Author: I fixed it up a bit

```
.rtfctl version
```

Output includes:

* The `rtfctl` command-line utility version in the `rtfctl` field
* The Runtime Fabric component version in the `agent` field

> For example:

Reviewer: Per the style ref., we avoid using this fragment to intro. an example. We either make the intro. a longer fragment or sentence, or rework the presentation something like this...:

.... `.rtfctl version`

The output looks something like this:

```
$ ./rtfctl version
COMPONENT    VERSION
rtfctl       0.3.122
agent        1.9.6
kubernetes   1.19.6-eks-49a6c0

(And then you would omit 
* The `rtfctl` command-line utility version in the `rtfctl` field
* The Runtime Fabric component version in the `agent` field)

Author: got it. thanks.

```
$ ./rtfctl version
COMPONENT    VERSION
rtfctl       0.3.122
agent        1.9.6
kubernetes   1.19.6-eks-49a6c0

```

[NOTE]

> The Runtime Fabric component version that is in use are also displayed in the *Runtime Fabrics* tab in Runtime Manager. If an upgrade is available, an "Upgrade to vx.x" message is displayed.

Reviewer: c/b more active: "You can also find your <blah> version in the...."

== Apply the Upgrades

To upgrade Anypoint Runtime Fabric for Self-Managed Kubernetes, you:

. Upgrade Runtime Fabric Components

> . Upgrade the `rtfctl` command-line utility

Reviewer: Gee, at this point I wonder if we are making this more complex than it needs to be, with all the small subtopics.
Seems like we could have...:

= Upgrade Runtime Fabric for Self-Managed Kubernetes
To upgrade Anypoint Runtime Fabric for Self-Managed Kubernetes, upgrade Runtime Fabric components and the `rtfctl` command-line utility.
Before upgrading, 
- Learn about the latest features
- Verify the current `rtfctl` and component `agent` versions.
- Move to a sandbox environment. (or incorporate this in to the steps, as the first one)

== Upgrade Runtime Fabric Components
Runtime Fabric components are.... 
To upgrade:
1. In a sandbox environment....
2.  
== Upgrade the `rtfctl` Command-Line Utility
The `rtfctl` command-line utility is....
To upgrade:
1. Do this
2. Do that

== Test in Sandbox and Move to Production???

Reviewer: The remainder of my edits are based on sticking with the original composition/copyedits.

Author: Ok. I will come back to this in the future after you review the other topic (as I'm trying to get parts of them aligned for reuse purposes).

> Before upgrading your production environment, perform these steps on a nonproduction Runtime Fabric to verify compatibility with your environment. Plan to upgrade when your team is not deploying new applications or managing existing applications on Runtime Fabric.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before upgrading your production environment, perform these steps on a nonproduction Runtime Fabric instance to verify compatibility with your environment. Plan to upgrade when your team is not deploying new applications or managing existing applications on Runtime Fabric.
```
Currently, this working in sandbox, testing, and then moving to production thing is pretty hidden, and it's pretty important. I would mention it earlier, as of equal importance as the two upgrades.

Reviewer: Also, this text is a little confusing, because it sounds like you perform the upgrade in the sandbox, test, and then later _move_ the upgrade (or _repeat_ "these steps") in production during downtime.

Review the xref:release-notes::runtime-fabric/runtime-fabric-release-notes.adoc[Anypoint Runtime Fabric Release Notes] information.

=== Upgrade Runtime Fabric Components

Review the xref:release-notes::runtime-fabric/runtime-fabric-release-notes.adoc[Anypoint Runtime Fabric Release Notes] information to learn more about the most recent component versions.

> . Navigate to your Runtime Fabric by selecting it on the *Runtime Fabrics* tab in Runtime Manager.

Reviewer: Specify sandbox?

. Select *Upgrade to vx.x*. The status of the Runtime Fabric is updated to show that the upgrade procedure is in progress.
. Wait for the status to transition to *Active*. 

In most cases, the upgrade takes fewer than 10 minutes. When the status transitions to *Active* and the version of the Runtime Fabric reflects the new version, the component upgrade is complete.

If the Runtime Fabric and Runtime Manager connection disconnects during the upgrade, connectivity is restored after the upgrade finishes.

After the upgrade, it’s normal for Runtime Fabric to report as “degraded” for a few minutes as it synchronizes with the control plane. This state automatically resolves after approximately five minutes.

> 

Reviewer: Still in sandbox...?

=== Upgrade the `rtfctl` Command-Line Utility

> . From your terminal run the following command: 

Reviewer: sandbox?

Reviewer: Also
```suggestion
. From your terminal, run the following command: 
```

+
----
curl -L https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/runtimefabric/api/download/rtfctl/latest -o rtfctl
----
. Change file permissions for the `rtfctl` binary: 
+
----
chmod +x rtfctl
----
. Alternatively, to update `rtfctl` in place as a user who owns the `rtfctl` binary, run
+
----
`rtfctl update`
----

> 

Reviewer: Test to verify compatibility
Move to production

= Upgrade Runtime Fabric for Self-Managed Kubernetes

To upgrade Anypoint Runtime Fabric for Self-Managed Kubernetes, upgrade Runtime Fabric components and the `rtfctl` command-line utility.

== About Component Upgrades

> Upgrading Runtime Fabric components means upgrading appliance-internal services that:

Author: ```suggestion
Upgrading Runtime Fabric components means upgrading services that:
```

- Facilitate communication to the control plane
- Provide load balancing
- Log and forward metrics

> Runtime Fabric component upgrades are applied within Runtime Manager via a button that's visible when an upgrade is made available.

Author: ```suggestion
When component upgrades are available, you apply the upgrades within Runtime Manager via a button that's visible when an upgrade is available.
```

Runtime Fabric component upgrades do not require adding a node.

=== Determine the Component Versions You Are Using

> From your local workstation (configured with a kubeconfig file) or a support bastion, run the following command:

Author: ```suggestion
From a local workstation that has a Kubeconfig file and can access Kubernetes, or from a support bastion, run the following command:
```

> The `rtfctl` command-line utility is used to manage Runtime Fabric and perform appliance and node configuration upgrades.

Author: ```suggestion
Use the `rtfctl` command-line utility  to manage Runtime Fabric and perform upgrades.
```

You upgrade the `rtfctl` utility from the command line.

> It is important to use the most current version of the `rtfctl` command-line utility.

Author: ```suggestion
```

```

The output looks something like this:

```
$ ./rtfctl version
COMPONENT    VERSION
rtfctl       0.3.122
agent        1.9.6
kubernetes   1.19.6-eks-49a6c0

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

```

> * The `rtfctl` field shows the `rtfctl` command-line utility version.

Author: ```suggestion

* The `rtfctl` field shows the `rtfctl` command-line utility version.
```

> Output includes:

Author: ```suggestion
The output looks something like this:
```

* The `agent` field shows the the Runtime Fabric component version.

[NOTE]
The Runtime Fabric component version that is in use is also displayed in the *Runtime Fabrics* tab in Runtime Manager. If an upgrade is available, Runtime Manager displays an *Upgrade to vx.x* message.

== About rtfctl Command-Line Utility Upgrades

> Use the `rtfctl` command-line utility  to manage Runtime Fabric and perform upgrades.

Reviewer: extra space before "to manage"

= Upgrade Runtime Fabric for Self-Managed Kubernetes

To upgrade Anypoint Runtime Fabric for Self-Managed Kubernetes, upgrade Runtime Fabric components and the `rtfctl` command-line utility.

== About Component Upgrades

> Upgrading Runtime Fabric components means upgrading services that:

Reviewer 2: You need a line between the intro sentence and the bullet items or the list doesn't render correctly in the output.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Upgrading Runtime Fabric components means upgrading services that:

```

- Facilitate communication to the control plane
- Provide load balancing
- Log and forward metrics

When component upgrades are available, you apply the upgrades within Runtime Manager via a button that's visible when an upgrade is available.

Runtime Fabric component upgrades do not require adding a node.

=== Determine the Component Versions You Are Using

> From a local workstation that has a Kubeconfig file and can access Kubernetes, or from a support bastion, run the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
From a local workstation that has a `Kubeconfig` file and can access Kubernetes, or from a support bastion, run the following command:
```

From a local workstation that has a `Kubeconfig` file and can access Kubernetes, or from a support bastion, run the following command:
```
.rtfctl version
```

The output looks something like this:

> For example:

Author: ```suggestion
```

> * The `rtfctl` command-line utility version in the `rtfctl` field

Reviewer 2: These seem out of place. Shouldn't it be...The output looks something like this:
<code example>
Also, Kim's edit seems to say omit these two bullet points. ?

Author: @valkyrie69 thanks for catching this. I missed this one. I moved the bullets under the code sample

For example:
```
$ ./rtfctl version
COMPONENT    VERSION
rtfctl       0.3.122
agent        1.9.6
kubernetes   1.19.6-eks-49a6c0

```

[NOTE]

> The Runtime Fabric component version that is in use are also displayed in the *Runtime Fabrics* tab in Runtime Manager. If an upgrade is available, Runtime Manager displays an *Upgrade to vx.x* message.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Runtime Fabric component version that is in use is also displayed in the *Runtime Fabrics* tab in Runtime Manager. If an upgrade is available, Runtime Manager displays an *Upgrade to vx.x* message.
```

Reviewer 2: It's either the Runtime Fabric component versions that are in use are also displayed.... or The Runtime Fabric component version that is in use is...

I don't know if multiple versions are displayed

== About rtfctl Command-Line Utility Upgrades

Use the `rtfctl` command-line utility  to manage Runtime Fabric and perform upgrades.

> You upgrade the `rtfctl` utility from the command line.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Upgrade the `rtfctl` utility from the command line.
```

. Navigate to your Runtime Fabric by selecting it on the *Runtime Fabrics* tab in Runtime Manager.
. Select *Upgrade to vx.x*. The status of the Runtime Fabric is updated to show that the upgrade procedure is in progress.
. Wait for the status to transition to *Active*. 

In most cases, the upgrade takes fewer than 10 minutes. When the status transitions to *Active* and the version of the Runtime Fabric reflects the new version, the component upgrade is complete.

If the Runtime Fabric and Runtime Manager connection disconnects during the upgrade, connectivity is restored after the upgrade finishes.

After the upgrade, it’s normal for Runtime Fabric to report as “degraded” for a few minutes as it synchronizes with the control plane. This state automatically resolves after approximately five minutes.

=== Upgrade the `rtfctl` Command-Line Utility

. From your terminal, run the following command: 
+
----
curl -L https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/runtimefabric/api/download/rtfctl/latest -o rtfctl
----
. Change file permissions for the `rtfctl` binary: 
+
----
chmod +x rtfctl
----

> . Alternatively, to update `rtfctl` in place as a user who owns the `rtfctl` binary, run

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Alternatively, to update `rtfctl` in place as a user who owns the `rtfctl` binary, run:
```
